README.md, before:

Varaamo
=======

[![GitHub Actions](https://github.com/city-of-turku/varaamo/actions/workflows/varaamo.yml/badge.svg?branch=develop)](https://github.com/city-of-turku/varaamo/actions/workflows/varaamo.yml)
[![CodeQL](https://github.com/City-of-Turku/varaamo/actions/workflows/codeql-analysis.yml/badge.svg?branch=develop)](https://github.com/City-of-Turku/varaamo/actions/workflows/codeql-analysis.yml)
[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/city-of-turku/varaamo/branch/develop/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/city-of-turku/varaamo)

User interface for the City of Turku [varaamo.turku.fi](https://varaamo.turku.fi/) resource reservation service. Uses the [respa API](https://varaamo.turku.fi:5010/v1/).

Recommended requirements
------------

- [node](http://nodejs.org/) `>=18.14.2` | Suggestion: `18.14.2`
- [npm](https://www.npmjs.com/) `>=6.14` | Suggestion: `6.14.16`
- [yarn](https://yarnpkg.com/) Optional, if `yarn` is not included as part of your current node version. `npm` can be used.

Architecture
------------

- [Redux](https://github.com/reactjs/redux) handles the state management of the app. For more info check their awesome [docs](http://redux.js.org/).
- [React](https://facebook.github.io/react/) handles the rendering of the 'views'.
- [react-redux](https://github.com/reactjs/react-redux) is used to connect the Redux Store to React components.
- [react-router](https://github.com/ReactTraining/react-router) handles the routing of the app.
- [reselect](https://github.com/reactjs/reselect) is used for getting data from Redux Store and manipulating it to be better usable in React components.
- [redux-api-middleware](https://github.com/agraboso/redux-api-middleware) is used to interact with the API.
- The application is run on an [express](http://expressjs.com/) server.
- Uses [redux-oidc](https://github.com/maxmantz/redux-oidc) for authentication.
- [webpack](https://webpack.github.io/) takes modules with dependencies and generates static assets representing those modules.
- [Babel](https://babeljs.io/) transforms JavaScript written in ES2015 and JSX syntax to regular JavaScript.

Usage
-----

### Starting dockerized development server

1. Check if Docker and docker CLI installed, port `3000` is free, not occupied by running server.

2. Make sure you have env variables in `.env`, otherwise extend it from example by:
    ```
    $ cp .env.example .env
    ```
3. Start building docker image and start container:
    ```
    $ docker compose -f docker-compose.yml -f docker-compose.dev.yml up
    ```
4. Open `localhost:3000` on browser when Webpack bundling is ready.

### Starting dockerized production server

Starting production server works in the same way as starting a development server with these exceptions:

- Production default port is `8080`

- Starting production server with docker compose:
    ```
    $ docker compose -f docker-compose.yml -f docker-compose.prod.yml up
    ```

### Starting local development server

Follow the instructions below to set up the development environment.
By default the running app can be found at `localhost:3000`.

1. Install npm dependencies:

    ```
    $ npm install
    ```

2. Make sure you have the following env variables set in an .env file in the root of the project:
    Run command:
    ```
    $ cp .env.example .env
    ```

    OR prepare .env with default content:

    ```
    CLIENT_ID
    OPENID_AUDIENCE
    OPENID_AUTHORITY
    API_URL
    ADMIN_URL
    THEME_PKG
    ```

    Environment's variable guideline:

    - `API_URL`:
      Custom config to replace global application's api URL. Expected value is valid URL string.

    - `ADMIN_URL`:
      Custom config to replace global application's admin respa URL. Expected value is valid URL string.

    - `THEME_PKG`:
      Custom config to override global application's styling and texts.
      Expected value is a valid string that is the name of the theme package, e.g. `THEME_PMG='varaamo-theme'`. Default styles and texts will be used if not set.


3. Then, start the development server:

    ```
    $ npm start
    ```

### Starting production server

Follow the instructions below to build and start production server.
By default the running app uses port `8080`.

1. Install npm dependencies:

    ```
    $ npm install
    ```

2. Build the production bundle:

    ```
    $ npm build
    ```

3. Make sure you have the required env variables set.

4. Then, start the production server:

    ```
    $ npm start:production
    ```

### Running tests

- Run tests:

    ```
    $ npm test
    ```

- Run tests in watch mode:

    ```
    $ npm test:watch
    ```

- Run tests with coverage:

    ```
    $ npm test:coverage
    ```

### Running code linter

- To check the code for linting errors:

    ```
    $ npm lint
    ```
- To automate fixing lint:

    ```
    $ npm lint:fix
    ```
OR enable `eslint --fix` onSave config in your code editor config.

### Useful docker commands
- To rebuild the docker images:
    ```
    $ docker compose -f docker-compose.yml -f docker-compose.dev.yml up --force-recreate --build
    ```
- To enter inside docker container environment:
    ```
    $ docker compose exec node-app sh
    ```
- Remove docker container if needed:
    ```
    $ docker rm -f <container_name>
    ```
- Remove docker image:
    ```
    $ docker rmi varaamo_node-app
    ```
- Running command inside Docker environment:
(Make sure docker container is running)
    ```
    $ docker compose run node-app YOUR_COMMAND_HERE
    ```
- Encounter `node-sass` issue ? try to go inside docker container environment and run `npm rebuild node-sass`

Code style and linting
----------------------

The code mostly follows the [Airbnb JavaScript Style Guide](https://github.com/airbnb/javascript).
All JavaScript should be written in ES2015 syntax.
Code is automatically linted with [eslint](http://eslint.org/) when running unit tests or bundling the app with webpack.

Styles and Stylesheets
----------------------

[Sass](http://sass-lang.com/) CSS extension language is used to make writing styles nicer. [Autoprefixer](https://github.com/postcss/autoprefixer) handles CSS vendor prefixes.
[Bootstrap](http://getbootstrap.com/) is used as the CSS framework for the site and [City of Helsinki Bootstrap theme](https://github.com/City-of-Helsinki/hel-bootstrap-3) is used as the main theme.

Custom themes
-----

A theme package can be installed to override the default styles and texts. In order to use a theme it must be installed/added locally
and then the env variable  `THEME_PKG` must be set accordingly `THEME_PKG='varaamo-theme'`.

See [example](https://github.com/codepointtku/varaamo-theme) for further explanation of how a theme package should look,be structured and what values can be overridden etc.

### Installation
Installation is the same for both development and production. If the theme package is published to npm/yarn then
this step can be skipped, just remember to set the name of the package as the `THEME_PKG='package-name'`.

For ease of use place the theme folder `varaamo-theme` next to the `varaamo` folder:
```
    /varaamo
    /varaamo-theme
```
and then in the `varaamo` project folder run `npm install ../varaamo-theme`.

Set `THEME_PKG='varaamo-theme'` to env variables.

### Development

Install the theme according to the installation instructions and then `npm link` the local theme package to
the local varaamo project.

```
cd ~/projects/varaamo-theme
npm link
cd ~/projects/varaamo
npm link varaamo-theme
```

Testing framework
-----------------

- [Jest](https://jestjs.io/) is used for running the tests and for test assertions. Running on [Jsdom](https://github.com/jsdom/jsdom) environment by default, which was a headless browser.
- [simple-mock](https://github.com/jupiter/simple-mock) and [MockDate](https://github.com/boblauer/MockDate) are used for mocking and spies.
- [Enzyme](https://github.com/airbnb/enzyme) is used to make testing React Components easier.

Running Vscode debugger
----------------------

All setting was included under .vscode directory.

- On Chrome:
    [Guideline](https://code.visualstudio.com/blogs/2016/02/23/introducing-chrome-debugger-for-vs-code). Setting was under `Vscode debugger` name
- On Jest test:
    [Guideline](https://jestjs.io/docs/en/troubleshooting#debugging-in-vs-code). Setting was under `Vscode Jest debugger` name.

    - Put breakpoint in test file `(*.spec.js)`

    - Run command:

    ```
    $ yarn test:debug
    ```

License
-------

[The MIT License](http://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)

Copyright (c) 2019 City of Turku <[http://www.turku.fi/](http://www.turku.fi/)>

Commit message:

Added setting for blocking search engine indexing

README.md, after:

Varaamo
=======

[![GitHub Actions](https://github.com/city-of-turku/varaamo/actions/workflows/varaamo.yml/badge.svg?branch=develop)](https://github.com/city-of-turku/varaamo/actions/workflows/varaamo.yml)
[![CodeQL](https://github.com/City-of-Turku/varaamo/actions/workflows/codeql-analysis.yml/badge.svg?branch=develop)](https://github.com/City-of-Turku/varaamo/actions/workflows/codeql-analysis.yml)
[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/city-of-turku/varaamo/branch/develop/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/city-of-turku/varaamo)

User interface for the City of Turku [varaamo.turku.fi](https://varaamo.turku.fi/) resource reservation service. Uses the [respa API](https://varaamo.turku.fi:5010/v1/).

Recommended requirements
------------

- [node](http://nodejs.org/) `>=18.14.2` | Suggestion: `18.14.2`
- [npm](https://www.npmjs.com/) `>=6.14` | Suggestion: `6.14.16`
- [yarn](https://yarnpkg.com/) Optional, if `yarn` is not included as part of your current node version. `npm` can be used.

Architecture
------------

- [Redux](https://github.com/reactjs/redux) handles the state management of the app. For more info check their awesome [docs](http://redux.js.org/).
- [React](https://facebook.github.io/react/) handles the rendering of the 'views'.
- [react-redux](https://github.com/reactjs/react-redux) is used to connect the Redux Store to React components.
- [react-router](https://github.com/ReactTraining/react-router) handles the routing of the app.
- [reselect](https://github.com/reactjs/reselect) is used for getting data from Redux Store and manipulating it to be better usable in React components.
- [redux-api-middleware](https://github.com/agraboso/redux-api-middleware) is used to interact with the API.
- The application is run on an [express](http://expressjs.com/) server.
- Uses [redux-oidc](https://github.com/maxmantz/redux-oidc) for authentication.
- [webpack](https://webpack.github.io/) takes modules with dependencies and generates static assets representing those modules.
- [Babel](https://babeljs.io/) transforms JavaScript written in ES2015 and JSX syntax to regular JavaScript.

Usage
-----

### Starting dockerized development server

1. Check if Docker and docker CLI installed, port `3000` is free, not occupied by running server.

2. Make sure you have env variables in `.env`, otherwise extend it from example by:
    ```
    $ cp .env.example .env
    ```
3. Start building docker image and start container:
    ```
    $ docker compose -f docker-compose.yml -f docker-compose.dev.yml up
    ```
4. Open `localhost:3000` on browser when Webpack bundling is ready.

### Starting dockerized production server

Starting production server works in the same way as starting a development server with these exceptions:

- Production default port is `8080`

- Starting production server with docker compose:
    ```
    $ docker compose -f docker-compose.yml -f docker-compose.prod.yml up
    ```

### Starting local development server

Follow the instructions below to set up the development environment.
By default the running app can be found at `localhost:3000`.

1. Install npm dependencies:

    ```
    $ npm install
    ```

2. Make sure you have the following env variables set in an .env file in the root of the project:
    Run command:
    ```
    $ cp .env.example .env
    ```

    OR prepare .env with default content:

    ```
    CLIENT_ID
    OPENID_AUDIENCE
    OPENID_AUTHORITY
    API_URL
    ADMIN_URL
    THEME_PKG
    ```

    Environment's variable guideline:

    - `API_URL`:
      Custom config to replace global application's api URL. Expected value is valid URL string.

    - `ADMIN_URL`:
      Custom config to replace global application's admin respa URL. Expected value is valid URL string.

    - `THEME_PKG`:
      Custom config to override global application's styling and texts.
      Expected value is a valid string that is the name of the theme package, e.g. `THEME_PMG='varaamo-theme'`. Default styles and texts will be used if not set.

    - `BLOCK_SEARCH_ENGINE_INDEXING`:
      Adding this setting prevents most search engines from indexing the site. This can be useful for preventing test instances from showing up in search results.


3. Then, start the development server:

    ```
    $ npm start
    ```

### Starting production server

Follow the instructions below to build and start production server.
By default the running app uses port `8080`.

1. Install npm dependencies:

    ```
    $ npm install
    ```

2. Build the production bundle:

    ```
    $ npm build
    ```

3. Make sure you have the required env variables set.

4. Then, start the production server:

    ```
    $ npm start:production
    ```

### Running tests

- Run tests:

    ```
    $ npm test
    ```

- Run tests in watch mode:

    ```
    $ npm test:watch
    ```

- Run tests with coverage:

    ```
    $ npm test:coverage
    ```

### Running code linter

- To check the code for linting errors:

    ```
    $ npm lint
    ```
- To automate fixing lint:

    ```
    $ npm lint:fix
    ```
OR enable `eslint --fix` onSave config in your code editor config.

### Useful docker commands
- To rebuild the docker images:
    ```
    $ docker compose -f docker-compose.yml -f docker-compose.dev.yml up --force-recreate --build
    ```
- To enter inside docker container environment:
    ```
    $ docker compose exec node-app sh
    ```
- Remove docker container if needed:
    ```
    $ docker rm -f <container_name>
    ```
- Remove docker image:
    ```
    $ docker rmi varaamo_node-app
    ```
- Running command inside Docker environment:
(Make sure docker container is running)
    ```
    $ docker compose run node-app YOUR_COMMAND_HERE
    ```
- Encounter `node-sass` issue ? try to go inside docker container environment and run `npm rebuild node-sass`

Code style and linting
----------------------

The code mostly follows the [Airbnb JavaScript Style Guide](https://github.com/airbnb/javascript).
All JavaScript should be written in ES2015 syntax.
Code is automatically linted with [eslint](http://eslint.org/) when running unit tests or bundling the app with webpack.

Styles and Stylesheets
----------------------

[Sass](http://sass-lang.com/) CSS extension language is used to make writing styles nicer. [Autoprefixer](https://github.com/postcss/autoprefixer) handles CSS vendor prefixes.
[Bootstrap](http://getbootstrap.com/) is used as the CSS framework for the site and [City of Helsinki Bootstrap theme](https://github.com/City-of-Helsinki/hel-bootstrap-3) is used as the main theme.

Custom themes
-----

A theme package can be installed to override the default styles and texts. In order to use a theme it must be installed/added locally
and then the env variable  `THEME_PKG` must be set accordingly `THEME_PKG='varaamo-theme'`.

See [example](https://github.com/codepointtku/varaamo-theme) for further explanation of how a theme package should look,be structured and what values can be overridden etc.

### Installation
Installation is the same for both development and production. If the theme package is published to npm/yarn then
this step can be skipped, just remember to set the name of the package as the `THEME_PKG='package-name'`.

For ease of use place the theme folder `varaamo-theme` next to the `varaamo` folder:
```
    /varaamo
    /varaamo-theme
```
and then in the `varaamo` project folder run `npm install ../varaamo-theme`.

Set `THEME_PKG='varaamo-theme'` to env variables.

### Development

Install the theme according to the installation instructions and then `npm link` the local theme package to
the local varaamo project.

```
cd ~/projects/varaamo-theme
npm link
cd ~/projects/varaamo
npm link varaamo-theme
```

Testing framework
-----------------

- [Jest](https://jestjs.io/) is used for running the tests and for test assertions. Running on [Jsdom](https://github.com/jsdom/jsdom) environment by default, which was a headless browser.
- [simple-mock](https://github.com/jupiter/simple-mock) and [MockDate](https://github.com/boblauer/MockDate) are used for mocking and spies.
- [Enzyme](https://github.com/airbnb/enzyme) is used to make testing React Components easier.

Running Vscode debugger
----------------------

All setting was included under .vscode directory.

- On Chrome:
    [Guideline](https://code.visualstudio.com/blogs/2016/02/23/introducing-chrome-debugger-for-vs-code). Setting was under `Vscode debugger` name
- On Jest test:
    [Guideline](https://jestjs.io/docs/en/troubleshooting#debugging-in-vs-code). Setting was under `Vscode Jest debugger` name.

    - Put breakpoint in test file `(*.spec.js)`

    - Run command:

    ```
    $ yarn test:debug
    ```

License
-------

[The MIT License](http://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)

Copyright (c) 2019 City of Turku <[http://www.turku.fi/](http://www.turku.fi/)>
